---
layout: post
title: "MD file copying3"
date:   2018-07-14 23:40:00 +0900
categories: MD
comments : true
---

# MarkDown

## Markdown vs markup - are they related?

* Markup is a generic term for a language that describes a document's formatting
* Markdown(MD) is a specific markup library: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/

## History

John Gruber created the Markdown language in 2004 in collaboration with Aaron Swartz on the syntax, with the goal of enabling people "to write using an easy-to-read, easy-to-write plain text format, and optionally convert it to structurally valid XHTML (or HTML)".
The key design goal is readability – that the language be readable as-is, without looking like it has been marked up with tags or formatting instructions, unlike text formatted with a markup language, such as Rich Text Format (RTF) or HTML, which have obvious tags and formatting instructions. To this end, its main inspiration is the existing conventions for marking up plain text in email, though it also draws from earlier markup languages, notably setext, Textile, and reStructuredText.
Gruber wrote a Perl script, Markdown.pl, which converts marked-up text input to valid, well-formed XHTML or HTML and replaces angle brackets '<' '>' and ampersands '&' with their corresponding character entity references. It can be used as a standalone script, as a plugin for Blosxom or Movable Type, or as a text filter for BBEdit.
Markdown has since been re-implemented by others as a Perl module available on CPAN (Text::Markdown), and in a variety of other programming languages. It is distributed under a BSD-style license and is included with, or available as a plugin for, several content-management systems.
Sites such as GitHub, Bitbucket, Reddit, Diaspora, Stack Exchange, OpenStreetMap, and SourceForge use variants of Markdown to facilitate discussion between users.

## Implementations

Implementations of Markdown are available for over a dozen programming languages; in addition, many platforms and frameworks support Markdown. For example, Markdown plugins exist for every major blogging platform.
While Markdown is a minimal markup language and is read and edited with a normal text editor, there are specially designed editors that preview the files with styles, which are available for all major platforms. Many general purpose text and code editors have syntax highlighting plugins for Markdown built into them or available as optional download. Editors may feature a side-by-side preview window or render the code directly in a WYSIWYG fashion.
The sourcecode documentation generator Doxygen supports Markdown with extra features.
RStudio, an IDE for R provides a C++ wrapper function for a markdown variant called sundown.
GitHub Flavored Markdown (GFM) ignores underscores in words, and adds syntax highlighting, task lists, and tables.
Discount - a C implementation.
MarkAPL is a converter written in Dyalog APL. It supports fenced blocks, smart typography, link references, and special attributes, and can generate a table of contents.
PHP Markdown - a library package that includes the PHP Markdown parser and its sibling PHP Markdown Extra with additional features.
Markdig - A .NET library which follows the CommonMark specifications, and has a collection of extensions with the ability for the user to create their own.
